README.rst, before:

PHP Coding Standards Fixer
==========================

The PHP Coding Standards Fixer tool fixes *most* issues in your code when you
want to follow the PHP coding standards as defined in the PSR-1 and PSR-2
documents.

If you are already using ``PHP_CodeSniffer`` to identify coding standards
problems in your code, you know that fixing them by hand is tedious, especially
on large projects. This tool does the job for you.

Requirements
------------

PHP needs to be a minimum version of PHP 5.3.6.

Installation
------------

Locally
~~~~~~~

Download the `php-cs-fixer.phar`_ file and store it somewhere on your computer.

Globally (manual)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can run these commands to easily access ``php-cs-fixer`` from anywhere on
your system:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ wget http://get.sensiolabs.org/php-cs-fixer.phar -O php-cs-fixer

or with curl:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ curl http://get.sensiolabs.org/php-cs-fixer.phar -o php-cs-fixer

then:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo chmod a+x php-cs-fixer
    $ sudo mv php-cs-fixer /usr/local/bin/php-cs-fixer

Then, just run ``php-cs-fixer``.

Globally (Composer)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To install PHP-CS-Fixer, install Composer and issue the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ./composer.phar global require fabpot/php-cs-fixer

Then, make sure you have ``~/.composer/vendor/bin`` in your ``PATH``, and
you're good to go:

.. code-block:: bash

    export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/.composer/vendor/bin"

Globally (homebrew)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

PHP-CS-Fixer is part of the homebrew-php project. Follow the installation
instructions at https://github.com/homebrew/homebrew-php if you don't
already have it.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ brew install homebrew/php/php-cs-fixer

Update
------

Locally
~~~~~~~

The ``self-update`` command tries to update ``php-cs-fixer`` itself:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ php php-cs-fixer.phar self-update

Globally (manual)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can update ``php-cs-fixer`` through this command:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo php-cs-fixer self-update

Globally (Composer)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can update ``php-cs-fixer`` through this command:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ./composer.phar global update fabpot/php-cs-fixer

Globally (homebrew)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can update ``php-cs-fixer`` through this command:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ brew upgrade php-cs-fixer

Usage
-----

The ``fix`` command tries to fix as much coding standards
problems as possible on a given file or directory:

.. code-block:: bash

    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/dir
    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/file

The ``--verbose`` option displays progress notification and show applied fixers.

The ``--level`` option limits the fixers to apply on the
project:

.. code-block:: bash

    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/project --level=psr0
    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/project --level=psr1
    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/project --level=psr2
    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/project --level=symfony

By default, all PSR-2 fixers and some additional ones are run. The "contrib
level" fixers cannot be enabled via this option; you should instead set them
manually by their name via the ``--fixers`` option.

The ``--fixers`` option lets you choose the exact fixers to
apply (the fixer names must be separated by a comma):

.. code-block:: bash

    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/dir --fixers=linefeed,short_tag,indentation

You can also blacklist the fixers you don't want if this is more convenient,
using ``-name``:

.. code-block:: bash

    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/dir --fixers=-short_tag,-indentation

When using combination with exact and blacklist fixers, apply exact fixers along with above blacklisted result:

.. code-block:: bash

    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/dir --fixers=linefeed,-short_tag

A combination of ``--dry-run`` and ``--diff`` will
display summary of proposed fixes, leaving your files unchanged.

The command can also read from standard input, in which case it won't
automatically fix anything:

.. code-block:: bash

    cat foo.php | php php-cs-fixer.phar fix --diff -

Choose from the list of available fixers:

* **psr0** [PSR-0] Classes must be in a path that
                matches their namespace, be at least
                one namespace deep, and the class name
                should match the file name.

* **encoding** [PSR-1] PHP code MUST use only UTF-8
                without BOM (remove BOM).

* **short_tag** [PSR-1] PHP code must use the long
                <?php ?> tags or the short-echo <?= ?>
                tags; it must not use the other tag
                variations.

* **braces** [PSR-2] The body of each structure
                MUST be enclosed by braces. Braces
                should be properly placed. Body of
                braces should be properly indented.

* **elseif** [PSR-2] The keyword elseif should be
                used instead of else if so that all
                control keywords looks like single
                words.

* **eof_ending** [PSR-2] A file must always end with an
                empty line feed.

* **function_call_space** [PSR-2] When making a method or
                function call, there MUST NOT be a
                space between the method or function
                name and the opening parenthesis.

* **function_declaration** [PSR-2] Spaces should be properly
                placed in a function declaration.

* **indentation** [PSR-2] Code MUST use an indent of 4
                spaces, and MUST NOT use tabs for
                indenting.

* **line_after_namespace** [PSR-2] There MUST be one blank line
                after the namespace declaration.

* **linefeed** [PSR-2] All PHP files must use the
                Unix LF (linefeed) line ending.

* **lowercase_constants** [PSR-2] The PHP constants true, false,
                and null MUST be in lower case.

* **lowercase_keywords** [PSR-2] PHP keywords MUST be in lower
                case.

* **method_argument_space** [PSR-2] In method arguments and method
                call, there MUST NOT be a space before
                each comma and there MUST be one space
                after each comma.

* **multiple_use** [PSR-2] There MUST be one use keyword
                per declaration.

* **parenthesis** [PSR-2] There MUST NOT be a space
                after the opening parenthesis. There
                MUST NOT be a space before the closing
                parenthesis.

* **php_closing_tag** [PSR-2] The closing ?> tag MUST be
                omitted from files containing only
                PHP.

* **trailing_spaces** [PSR-2] Remove trailing whitespace at
                the end of non-blank lines.

* **visibility** [PSR-2] Visibility MUST be declared on
                all properties and methods; abstract
                and final MUST be declared before the
                visibility; static MUST be declared
                after the visibility.

* **concat_without_spaces** [symfony] Concatenation should be used
                without spaces.

* **double_arrow_multiline_whitespaces** [symfony] Operator => should not be
                arounded by multi-line whitespaces.

* **duplicate_semicolon** [symfony] Remove duplicated
                semicolons.

* **empty_return** [symfony] A return statement wishing
                to return nothing should be simply
                "return".

* **extra_empty_lines** [symfony] Removes extra empty lines.

* **include** [symfony] Include and file path should
                be divided with a single space. File
                path should not be placed under
                brackets.

* **join_function** [symfony] Implode function should be
                used instead of join function.

* **multiline_array_trailing_comma** [symfony] PHP multi-line arrays should
                have a trailing comma.

* **namespace_no_leading_whitespace** [symfony] The namespace declaration
                line shouldn't contain leading
                whitespace.

* **new_with_braces** [symfony] All instances created with
                new keyword must be followed by
                braces.

* **object_operator** [symfony] There should not be space
                before or after object
                T_OBJECT_OPERATOR.

* **operators_spaces** [symfony] Operators should be arounded
                by at least one space.

* **phpdoc_indent** [symfony] Docblocks should have the
                same indentation as the documented
                subject.

* **phpdoc_params** [symfony] All items of the @param,
                @throws, @return, @var, and @type
                phpdoc tags must be aligned
                vertically.

* **remove_leading_slash_use** [symfony] Remove leading slashes in
                use clauses.

* **remove_lines_between_uses** [symfony] Removes line breaks between
                use statements.

* **return** [symfony] An empty line feed should
                precede a return statement.

* **single_array_no_trailing_comma** [symfony] PHP single-line arrays
                should not have trailing comma.

* **spaces_before_semicolon** [symfony] Single-line whitespace
                before closing semicolon are
                prohibited.

* **spaces_cast** [symfony] A single space should be
                between cast and variable.

* **standardize_not_equal** [symfony] Replace all <> with !=.

* **ternary_spaces** [symfony] Standardize spaces around
                ternary operator.

* **unused_use** [symfony] Unused use statements must
                be removed.

* **whitespacy_lines** [symfony] Remove trailing whitespace
                at the end of blank lines.

* **align_double_arrow** [contrib] Align double arrow symbols
                in consecutive lines.

* **align_equals** [contrib] Align equals symbols in
                consecutive lines.

* **concat_with_spaces** [contrib] Concatenation should be used
                with at least one whitespace around.

* **multiline_spaces_before_semicolon** [contrib] Multi-line whitespace before
                closing semicolon are prohibited.

* **ordered_use** [contrib] Ordering use statements.

* **short_array_syntax** [contrib] PHP array's should use the
                PHP 5.4 short-syntax.

* **strict** [contrib] Comparison should be strict.
                Warning! This could change code
                behavior.

* **strict_param** [contrib] Functions should be used
                with $strict param. Warning! This
                could change code behavior.


The ``--config`` option customizes the files to analyse, based
on some well-known directory structures:

.. code-block:: bash

    # For the Symfony 2.3+ branch
    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/sf23 --config=sf23

Choose from the list of available configurations:

* **default** A default configuration

* **magento** The configuration for a Magento application

* **sf23**    The configuration for the Symfony 2.3+ branch

The ``--dry-run`` option displays the files that need to be
fixed but without actually modifying them:

.. code-block:: bash

    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/code --dry-run

Instead of using command line options to customize the fixer, you can save the
configuration in a ``.php_cs`` file in the root directory of
your project. The file must return an instance of
``Symfony\CS\ConfigInterface``, which lets you configure the fixers, the level, the files,
and directories that need to be analyzed. The example below will add two contrib fixers
to the default list of symfony-level fixers:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    $finder = Symfony\CS\Finder\DefaultFinder::create()
        ->exclude('somedir')
        ->in(__DIR__)
    ;

    return Symfony\CS\Config\Config::create()
        ->fixers(array('strict_param', 'short_array_syntax'))
        ->finder($finder)
    ;

If you want complete control over which fixers you use, you may use the empty level and
then specify all fixers to be used:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    $finder = Symfony\CS\Finder\DefaultFinder::create()
        ->in(__DIR__)
    ;

    return Symfony\CS\Config\Config::create()
        ->level(Symfony\CS\FixerInterface::NONE_LEVEL)
        ->fixers(array('trailing_spaces', 'encoding'))
        ->finder($finder)
    ;

You may also use a blacklist for the Fixers instead of the above shown whitelist approach.
The following example shows how to use all ``symfony`` Fixers but the ``psr0`` fixer.
Note the additional ``-`` in front of the Fixer name.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    $finder = Symfony\CS\Finder\DefaultFinder::create()
        ->exclude('somedir')
        ->in(__DIR__)
    ;

    return Symfony\CS\Config\Config::create()
        ->fixers(array('-psr0'))
        ->finder($finder)
    ;

The ``symfony`` level is set by default, you can also change the default level:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    return Symfony\CS\Config\Config::create()
        ->level(Symfony\CS\FixerInterface::PSR2_LEVEL)
    ;

In combination with these config and command line options, you can choose various usage.

For example, default level is ``symfony``, but if you also don't want to use
the ``psr0`` fixer, you can specify the ``--fixers="-psr0"`` option.

But if you use the ``--fixers`` option with only exact fixers,
only those exact fixers are enabled whether or not level is set.

With the ``--config-file`` option you can specify the path to the
``.php_cs`` file.

Caching
-------

You can enable caching by returning a custom config with caching enabled. This will
speed up further runs.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    return Symfony\CS\Config\Config::create()
        ->setUsingCache(true)
    ;

Helpers
-------

Dedicated plugins exist for:

* `Vim`_
* `Sublime Text`_
* `NetBeans`_
* `PhpStorm`_

Contribute
----------

The tool comes with quite a few built-in fixers and finders, but everyone is
more than welcome to `contribute`_ more of them.

Fixers
~~~~~~

A *fixer* is a class that tries to fix one CS issue (a ``Fixer`` class must
implement ``FixerInterface``).

Configs
~~~~~~~

A *config* knows about the CS level and the files and directories that must be
scanned by the tool when run in the directory of your project. It is useful for
projects that follow a well-known directory structures (like for Symfony
projects for instance).

.. _php-cs-fixer.phar: http://get.sensiolabs.org/php-cs-fixer.phar
.. _Vim:               https://github.com/stephpy/vim-php-cs-fixer
.. _Sublime Text:      https://github.com/benmatselby/sublime-phpcs
.. _NetBeans:          http://plugins.netbeans.org/plugin/49042/php-cs-fixer
.. _PhpStorm:          http://arnolog.net/post/92715936483/use-fabpots-php-cs-fixer-tool-in-phpstorm-in-2-steps
.. _contribute:        https://github.com/FriendsOfPhp/php-cs-fixer/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

Commit message:

FixCommand - stop corrupting xml/json format

README.rst, after:

PHP Coding Standards Fixer
==========================

The PHP Coding Standards Fixer tool fixes *most* issues in your code when you
want to follow the PHP coding standards as defined in the PSR-1 and PSR-2
documents.

If you are already using ``PHP_CodeSniffer`` to identify coding standards
problems in your code, you know that fixing them by hand is tedious, especially
on large projects. This tool does the job for you.

Requirements
------------

PHP needs to be a minimum version of PHP 5.3.6.

Installation
------------

Locally
~~~~~~~

Download the `php-cs-fixer.phar`_ file and store it somewhere on your computer.

Globally (manual)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can run these commands to easily access ``php-cs-fixer`` from anywhere on
your system:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ wget http://get.sensiolabs.org/php-cs-fixer.phar -O php-cs-fixer

or with curl:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ curl http://get.sensiolabs.org/php-cs-fixer.phar -o php-cs-fixer

then:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo chmod a+x php-cs-fixer
    $ sudo mv php-cs-fixer /usr/local/bin/php-cs-fixer

Then, just run ``php-cs-fixer``.

Globally (Composer)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To install PHP-CS-Fixer, install Composer and issue the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ./composer.phar global require fabpot/php-cs-fixer

Then, make sure you have ``~/.composer/vendor/bin`` in your ``PATH``, and
you're good to go:

.. code-block:: bash

    export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/.composer/vendor/bin"

Globally (homebrew)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

PHP-CS-Fixer is part of the homebrew-php project. Follow the installation
instructions at https://github.com/homebrew/homebrew-php if you don't
already have it.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ brew install homebrew/php/php-cs-fixer

Update
------

Locally
~~~~~~~

The ``self-update`` command tries to update ``php-cs-fixer`` itself:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ php php-cs-fixer.phar self-update

Globally (manual)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can update ``php-cs-fixer`` through this command:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo php-cs-fixer self-update

Globally (Composer)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can update ``php-cs-fixer`` through this command:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ./composer.phar global update fabpot/php-cs-fixer

Globally (homebrew)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can update ``php-cs-fixer`` through this command:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ brew upgrade php-cs-fixer

Usage
-----

The ``fix`` command tries to fix as much coding standards
problems as possible on a given file or directory:

.. code-block:: bash

    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/dir
    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/file

The ``--verbose`` option show applied fixers. When using ``txt`` format (default one) it will also displays progress notification.

The ``--level`` option limits the fixers to apply on the
project:

.. code-block:: bash

    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/project --level=psr0
    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/project --level=psr1
    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/project --level=psr2
    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/project --level=symfony

By default, all PSR-2 fixers and some additional ones are run. The "contrib
level" fixers cannot be enabled via this option; you should instead set them
manually by their name via the ``--fixers`` option.

The ``--fixers`` option lets you choose the exact fixers to
apply (the fixer names must be separated by a comma):

.. code-block:: bash

    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/dir --fixers=linefeed,short_tag,indentation

You can also blacklist the fixers you don't want if this is more convenient,
using ``-name``:

.. code-block:: bash

    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/dir --fixers=-short_tag,-indentation

When using combination with exact and blacklist fixers, apply exact fixers along with above blacklisted result:

.. code-block:: bash

    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/dir --fixers=linefeed,-short_tag

A combination of ``--dry-run`` and ``--diff`` will
display summary of proposed fixes, leaving your files unchanged.

The command can also read from standard input, in which case it won't
automatically fix anything:

.. code-block:: bash

    cat foo.php | php php-cs-fixer.phar fix --diff -

Choose from the list of available fixers:

* **psr0** [PSR-0] Classes must be in a path that
                matches their namespace, be at least
                one namespace deep, and the class name
                should match the file name.

* **encoding** [PSR-1] PHP code MUST use only UTF-8
                without BOM (remove BOM).

* **short_tag** [PSR-1] PHP code must use the long
                <?php ?> tags or the short-echo <?= ?>
                tags; it must not use the other tag
                variations.

* **braces** [PSR-2] The body of each structure
                MUST be enclosed by braces. Braces
                should be properly placed. Body of
                braces should be properly indented.

* **elseif** [PSR-2] The keyword elseif should be
                used instead of else if so that all
                control keywords looks like single
                words.

* **eof_ending** [PSR-2] A file must always end with an
                empty line feed.

* **function_call_space** [PSR-2] When making a method or
                function call, there MUST NOT be a
                space between the method or function
                name and the opening parenthesis.

* **function_declaration** [PSR-2] Spaces should be properly
                placed in a function declaration.

* **indentation** [PSR-2] Code MUST use an indent of 4
                spaces, and MUST NOT use tabs for
                indenting.

* **line_after_namespace** [PSR-2] There MUST be one blank line
                after the namespace declaration.

* **linefeed** [PSR-2] All PHP files must use the
                Unix LF (linefeed) line ending.

* **lowercase_constants** [PSR-2] The PHP constants true, false,
                and null MUST be in lower case.

* **lowercase_keywords** [PSR-2] PHP keywords MUST be in lower
                case.

* **method_argument_space** [PSR-2] In method arguments and method
                call, there MUST NOT be a space before
                each comma and there MUST be one space
                after each comma.

* **multiple_use** [PSR-2] There MUST be one use keyword
                per declaration.

* **parenthesis** [PSR-2] There MUST NOT be a space
                after the opening parenthesis. There
                MUST NOT be a space before the closing
                parenthesis.

* **php_closing_tag** [PSR-2] The closing ?> tag MUST be
                omitted from files containing only
                PHP.

* **trailing_spaces** [PSR-2] Remove trailing whitespace at
                the end of non-blank lines.

* **visibility** [PSR-2] Visibility MUST be declared on
                all properties and methods; abstract
                and final MUST be declared before the
                visibility; static MUST be declared
                after the visibility.

* **concat_without_spaces** [symfony] Concatenation should be used
                without spaces.

* **double_arrow_multiline_whitespaces** [symfony] Operator => should not be
                arounded by multi-line whitespaces.

* **duplicate_semicolon** [symfony] Remove duplicated
                semicolons.

* **empty_return** [symfony] A return statement wishing
                to return nothing should be simply
                "return".

* **extra_empty_lines** [symfony] Removes extra empty lines.

* **include** [symfony] Include and file path should
                be divided with a single space. File
                path should not be placed under
                brackets.

* **join_function** [symfony] Implode function should be
                used instead of join function.

* **multiline_array_trailing_comma** [symfony] PHP multi-line arrays should
                have a trailing comma.

* **namespace_no_leading_whitespace** [symfony] The namespace declaration
                line shouldn't contain leading
                whitespace.

* **new_with_braces** [symfony] All instances created with
                new keyword must be followed by
                braces.

* **object_operator** [symfony] There should not be space
                before or after object
                T_OBJECT_OPERATOR.

* **operators_spaces** [symfony] Operators should be arounded
                by at least one space.

* **phpdoc_indent** [symfony] Docblocks should have the
                same indentation as the documented
                subject.

* **phpdoc_params** [symfony] All items of the @param,
                @throws, @return, @var, and @type
                phpdoc tags must be aligned
                vertically.

* **remove_leading_slash_use** [symfony] Remove leading slashes in
                use clauses.

* **remove_lines_between_uses** [symfony] Removes line breaks between
                use statements.

* **return** [symfony] An empty line feed should
                precede a return statement.

* **single_array_no_trailing_comma** [symfony] PHP single-line arrays
                should not have trailing comma.

* **spaces_before_semicolon** [symfony] Single-line whitespace
                before closing semicolon are
                prohibited.

* **spaces_cast** [symfony] A single space should be
                between cast and variable.

* **standardize_not_equal** [symfony] Replace all <> with !=.

* **ternary_spaces** [symfony] Standardize spaces around
                ternary operator.

* **unused_use** [symfony] Unused use statements must
                be removed.

* **whitespacy_lines** [symfony] Remove trailing whitespace
                at the end of blank lines.

* **align_double_arrow** [contrib] Align double arrow symbols
                in consecutive lines.

* **align_equals** [contrib] Align equals symbols in
                consecutive lines.

* **concat_with_spaces** [contrib] Concatenation should be used
                with at least one whitespace around.

* **multiline_spaces_before_semicolon** [contrib] Multi-line whitespace before
                closing semicolon are prohibited.

* **ordered_use** [contrib] Ordering use statements.

* **short_array_syntax** [contrib] PHP array's should use the
                PHP 5.4 short-syntax.

* **strict** [contrib] Comparison should be strict.
                Warning! This could change code
                behavior.

* **strict_param** [contrib] Functions should be used
                with $strict param. Warning! This
                could change code behavior.


The ``--config`` option customizes the files to analyse, based
on some well-known directory structures:

.. code-block:: bash

    # For the Symfony 2.3+ branch
    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/sf23 --config=sf23

Choose from the list of available configurations:

* **default** A default configuration

* **magento** The configuration for a Magento application

* **sf23**    The configuration for the Symfony 2.3+ branch

The ``--dry-run`` option displays the files that need to be
fixed but without actually modifying them:

.. code-block:: bash

    php php-cs-fixer.phar fix /path/to/code --dry-run

Instead of using command line options to customize the fixer, you can save the
configuration in a ``.php_cs`` file in the root directory of
your project. The file must return an instance of
``Symfony\CS\ConfigInterface``, which lets you configure the fixers, the level, the files,
and directories that need to be analyzed. The example below will add two contrib fixers
to the default list of symfony-level fixers:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    $finder = Symfony\CS\Finder\DefaultFinder::create()
        ->exclude('somedir')
        ->in(__DIR__)
    ;

    return Symfony\CS\Config\Config::create()
        ->fixers(array('strict_param', 'short_array_syntax'))
        ->finder($finder)
    ;

If you want complete control over which fixers you use, you may use the empty level and
then specify all fixers to be used:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    $finder = Symfony\CS\Finder\DefaultFinder::create()
        ->in(__DIR__)
    ;

    return Symfony\CS\Config\Config::create()
        ->level(Symfony\CS\FixerInterface::NONE_LEVEL)
        ->fixers(array('trailing_spaces', 'encoding'))
        ->finder($finder)
    ;

You may also use a blacklist for the Fixers instead of the above shown whitelist approach.
The following example shows how to use all ``symfony`` Fixers but the ``psr0`` fixer.
Note the additional ``-`` in front of the Fixer name.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    $finder = Symfony\CS\Finder\DefaultFinder::create()
        ->exclude('somedir')
        ->in(__DIR__)
    ;

    return Symfony\CS\Config\Config::create()
        ->fixers(array('-psr0'))
        ->finder($finder)
    ;

The ``symfony`` level is set by default, you can also change the default level:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    return Symfony\CS\Config\Config::create()
        ->level(Symfony\CS\FixerInterface::PSR2_LEVEL)
    ;

In combination with these config and command line options, you can choose various usage.

For example, default level is ``symfony``, but if you also don't want to use
the ``psr0`` fixer, you can specify the ``--fixers="-psr0"`` option.

But if you use the ``--fixers`` option with only exact fixers,
only those exact fixers are enabled whether or not level is set.

With the ``--config-file`` option you can specify the path to the
``.php_cs`` file.

Caching
-------

You can enable caching by returning a custom config with caching enabled. This will
speed up further runs.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    return Symfony\CS\Config\Config::create()
        ->setUsingCache(true)
    ;

Helpers
-------

Dedicated plugins exist for:

* `Vim`_
* `Sublime Text`_
* `NetBeans`_
* `PhpStorm`_

Contribute
----------

The tool comes with quite a few built-in fixers and finders, but everyone is
more than welcome to `contribute`_ more of them.

Fixers
~~~~~~

A *fixer* is a class that tries to fix one CS issue (a ``Fixer`` class must
implement ``FixerInterface``).

Configs
~~~~~~~

A *config* knows about the CS level and the files and directories that must be
scanned by the tool when run in the directory of your project. It is useful for
projects that follow a well-known directory structures (like for Symfony
projects for instance).

.. _php-cs-fixer.phar: http://get.sensiolabs.org/php-cs-fixer.phar
.. _Vim:               https://github.com/stephpy/vim-php-cs-fixer
.. _Sublime Text:      https://github.com/benmatselby/sublime-phpcs
.. _NetBeans:          http://plugins.netbeans.org/plugin/49042/php-cs-fixer
.. _PhpStorm:          http://arnolog.net/post/92715936483/use-fabpots-php-cs-fixer-tool-in-phpstorm-in-2-steps
.. _contribute:        https://github.com/FriendsOfPhp/php-cs-fixer/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
